All right in this lecture we're going to learn how to draw the lips.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing I like to do when I'm drawing the lips is I like to draw a little bit of a curve
but almost straight line just like so that's going to be crease or the crack between our upper left
and our bottom left.
Next thing I like to do is I like to mark where the top of my lip is going to be.
So I put a mark like so then I'll do the same thing down here.
And then I like to put a middle line right through the middle of this line.
So I want to make sure it's as close to the middle as possible and now right here on this first Mark
I'm going to go ahead and make the top sheet on my left.
So it's basically going to be sort of a squashed letter the like so then I can go ahead and continue
this line with a curve kind of like so and then it's going to turn into an inverted curve down to that
point.
So almost like a very stretched S curve will do the same thing on the other side so it's going to curve
upwards first and then start to scoot downwards all the way back to this corner.
And we want to try to get this shape on the side to be as symmetrical to that shape on that side so
we'll continue to work with that.
We get it looking correct.
Once we have that shape established next we don't want to do is I want to go ahead and create my bottom
lip.
So the bottom lip is basically going to start right here and it's basically going to be an oval like
so.
So this is going to come a little bit past these two points of the upper lip and then that's going to
morph into that corner right there.
And same with this side so we'll go ahead and curve that into that corner right there.
All right.
Perfect.
Now we can go ahead and start adding in our shading.
So first the crease of our mouth or the crack between the two lips is going come a little bit further
than the actual shape of the lips.
And in some cases it might even come up a little bit like so.
No Mansons sheeting underneath that next door we want to do is we want to add in that sheep between
our two laps.
So it's not going to be a straight line.
The first shape we have to incorporate in there is this part right here that's right underneath this
sort of V-shape of our lips.
And basically it's just going to be another V-shape right underneath here.
And we want to try to create that little soft so that it's not such a hard line especially towards the
ends of it.
We're going to go ahead and create this shape right here which is basically going to be a curved shape
that comes back into the corner of her mouth.
Do the same thing on the other side like so.
And now we have that shape for it the middle of our lips.
Now we can go ahead and start shading it in.
Now the light source is going to be coming down from the top.
And this Libert here if we look at it from the side it's going to be at a down angle like so then this
bottom lip is going to be a rounded shape like so and so that means that this surface right here which
will be the surface right here is going to be our châteaux.
So we're gonna go ahead and fill in the top area of our lips with a mid-tone châteaux just like so now
we're going to go ahead and further detail this in.
So the first thing we want to really shade in is we want to Durgan this area right here on this side
of our V-shape right here.
So that gets darkened in just a little bit.
Next we want to go ahead and Durkan in this bottom area.
So as the lips come down and into the mouth when you get a little bit of shadow in that area.
So let's go ahead and have that shadow in.
And we want to try to avoid adding too much to this area right here.
So was just out on both sides of that.
And we want that to blend into our other value or lighter value.
I mean so out a little bit of value on this part we just don't want it to be as dirt.
I'm going to go ahead and Durkan that line in a little bit more with a very dark hard line seam with
this part here.
And then we can go ahead and Durkan in these corner areas like so team with this side.
All right.
Great.
Now we can go ahead and add a little bit more detail and thereby adding some lines and some cracks into
the lips so make it look more realistic.
And as we get to this middle area the lines are going to become more straight and then as they get further
out they're going to become more curved once again.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and move on to the bottom part of the mouth or the bottom lip.
So first off because we have this shape right here for the bottom lip.
That means the light is going to be hitting this surface right here which is this main area of the lip.
And as occurs underneath we're going to be getting some shadow underneath here.
So let's start by adding in that shadow so basically we're just going to add in dirt shadow underneath
this edge and it's slowly going to soften into our highlight.
We can also soften that in to the skin of our face down here.
Which also you notice that I'm searching sort of form that Shinichi with the chateau
that I'm going to go ahead and add some shallow down this side of my worth and seen the sign
that I'm going to start around the sheep out by using some more value just like so
I can during the shadow in just a little bit more.
And we also want to add a little bit of shadow on this edge because these lips the top lips would be
creating a little bit of a cat shadow on the area.
Then I'll add a little bit of shadow right down the middle because the lips kind of get split up into
two parts to this side and this side they're usually divided by a little crease in the lips.
Then we can go ahead and add in some wind detail in there to create some cracks on the lips or it not
necessarily cracks but more wrinkles.
Just like so.
And I'm going to soften that Dirk edge on the upper lip a little bit more and bring that out into the
skin part of my face.
So it's a little bit too dark somebody go ahead and make that up.
All right.
Perfect.
We might also want to Durgan in line just a titch bit more Durkan on this bottom lip a little bit more.
Also then can also soften that dirt value into the light part of the skin.
And then go ahead and add a little bit of a darker edge to his lips up there.
Then Overall I'm going to Durkan these lips just a little bit more on the top side just because I want
them to appear like they're more in shadow are great.
So we just created the clips from the front view.
Now I want to show you how to create the lips from a threequarters you.
So it's very similar to drawing the lips this way.
So first we start off with our middle line of our mouth and it's going to be a little bit curved because
the face is curved.
Then we're going to go ahead and create the little line over the crease in the mouth and it's going
to be a little curved and it's going to be illustrator on this side and then over on the other side
of this line is going to get a little bit more curved because we're looking at it in perspective.
Next we're going to mark where the top of her lip is and the bottom of it.
And we're going to go ahead and create a V shape on that line like so in this case the V-shape rather
than being so spread out like so we're going to make a lot more squashed like we have already drawn
here and we're going to go ahead and continue that line all the way back to the corner of her mouth.
And then the side can come over all the way to the corner of her mouth like so.
And because we're looking at this at an angle this side is a lot more squashed than this side.
We'll go ahead and draw the bottom lip.
So we're going to draw that in just like so and we'll bring it back to this corner.
Now we can go ahead and shade that in.
So I'm going to go ahead and start by adding this other V-shape on the bottom and then I'll go ahead
and continue this middle line.
Back to the corner of my mouth.
Now we can go ahead and shade that and so we're going to start with this bottom edge make it pretty
dark
them can also Durkan this edge a little bit more because maybe it's being hit by the light less maybe
the light is coming more from this angle.
So this is going to be a little bit more in shadow
go ahead and have some shadow to the bottom edge of the lab the top I mean they're going to go ahead
and cheat in this whole shape.
So it becomes the shadow side of our lips that we can go ahead and move on to the bottom part of her
lip.
So we'll go ahead and add in a dark shadow on the underside of her lip.
Like so normal out a little bit more of a shadow under this part of the lips.
We have a little bit more of a cast a shadow and we can also darken this edge of the lip a little bit
more since the shadows on this side of the face.
And so now we've drawn the lips from a three quarters to the last view we need to draw the lives in
is from a side profile.
So the way you draw the lips from a side view is very simple.
So first you start off with your middle one like so and then you need to go ahead and and the top part
of your lips and then you need to add the bottom part of your lips and the bottom parts are basically
going to be a rounded curve that will then turn into sort of a raindrop type of a shape.
So then the top or lips is almost going to be a straight line back to that point that will turn into
the top lip.
And we're kind of creating a little bit of a paraphrase here or something to go ahead and bring the
sheep back a little bit more.
Well go ahead and embrace that.
And then these lips will turn into the chins and curve that I like so.
And then basically the top area gets all the chateau
and then this bottom lip gets a little bit of shadow on the bottom side.
So like so and then it gets a little bit of shattering here and you can go ahead and further detail
that out.
But that's basically how you draw the lifts from a profile view.
All right.
So that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to draw the lips in a front view a three quarter view and a profile
of you.
Your assignment for this lecture is to go ahead and draw these lips.
And then I want you to post one of them to either the Q&A section of the Course or the Facebook group.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.